# Spelling Checker
**Working in process**

### How to do the assignment?
  In this assignment, we need to folllow the guide to finish the homework, which is to use edit distance to check whether the input word is spelling correct. Giving a dictionary text file, we are going to compare the input word with every words in the dictionary to find out the edit distance between them. If the minimum edit distance of 0 exist in the dictionary file, we can said that the word is correct spelling. Otherwise, the word is not spelling correct, and we will list the words in range of edit distance 1 to 3.
  In the programing parts, first we get the words one by one from the dictionary, store them up in a big enough list. In this phase, we also store the words amount, in case we would use it later. Then, we get the input from user, and compare it one by one to each dictionary words. By using the algorithm we had been given, we immplement following code: For each word, first we need to drop the change line character(which we would get these from the text file, compare first character to set to initial distance. Then, we calculate the edit distance, using the algorithm, set up the distance of first row and first column, base on this we could calulate rest distance. For each position, comparing the edit distance between this one, the one in the left + 1 and in the buttom + 1.The edit distance of the choosen position is the distance from left buttom corner plus one or zero, by condition of whether the character of this position are the same for the input word and the dictionary word now are the same or not(same is 0, different is 1). These calculation is from the algorithm, when we comparing two words, each modification, include shift, addition and deletion, would plus the edit distance by 1. We would store the result of the words which had edit distance 1, 2 or 3 in 3 different list, also check whether we have same character in the dictionary. The rest part are output results. If we had the same word from the dictionary, we will telling the user the spelling is correct; otherwise we would list the word from the list we had store in last process(when calculating edit distance).
  Currently GUI is still work in process, incoming in next few days.
